CIAN FITZGERALD (20206773) WEB DEVELOPMENT ASSIGNMENT 1 Links to both your own pages and external webpages:Links to pages within the website are included on the main page where you will find a link to the gallery above the featured content. As well as below this where the artist of the day and daily news pages are linked using a container that is clickable when hovered over. Links to external webpages are included throughout the website, within the daily news pages there are Spotify links and links to articles related to the content. As well as this I created a designated links page where there are 12 links in total to external webpages, categorised accordingly.A navigation bar:A navigation bar is located on each page. The style of the homepage navigation bar differs from that on the other webpages for stylistic purposes. As well as this I included a navigation bar in the footer, the links on this however are only for display purposes.At least one table used in an appropriate manner:I deemed a table appropriate for the Artist of the week page, where I could tabulate the information under the following headings: Name, Sub-genre and the reason they were chosen. At least one list (ordered or unordered):Unordered lists were used in the links page. I found this to be the most appropriate way of displaying the variety of links. I displayed the lists within a grid in order to categorise the links and display them in an organised manner.At least one local or embedded video:Embedded videos appear across the webpages, including one on the home page, and two on the gallery page. These were implemented using the iframe element.At least four CSS3 and four HTML5 specific elements:A range of CSS3 and HTML5 specific elements were used, examples including:CSS3:border radius - used to round cornersopacity – used for hover overlaytext-decoration – Used for styling texttext justify – used for styling textHTML5:<iframe> - used to embed videos directly from YouTube into the webpage<article>  - Used for sections containing paragraph style text.<footer> - used for footer section on each page<nav> - Used for the navigation bar on home pageMake use of the CSS positional properties (e.g. position, float):Positional properties were used throughout the CSS styling for the webpages. For example with the news and gallery pages the containers were floating left with a 50% width to create a grid–like responsive structure.Make use of both inline and block elements:Block and inline block elements were used throughout. Examples being the navigation bars, on the home page the navigation bar is inline block, on the other webpages the navigation bar is a block element.Exploration of Additional features of HTML and CSS:In order to improve the overall design and quality of the website it was necessary to explore how to create a more responsive website. To do so I used W3 schools and other resources to research how to create responsive images, text blocks, navigation bars etc. through various methods from height and width adjustments to media queries.  It became apparent that the responsiveness of a website is a crucial factor in ensuring that quality standards are met. For instance, on the gallery page I created a responsive gallery using media queries, this method re-arranges images on different screen in accordance with the screen size. Therefore, for screens that are 700px or larger the four items on the gallery page will be displayed in a grid, And for screens smaller than 500px the four items will stack vertically. I used the same media queries for the home page, where the featured content and secondary content will stack vertically if the screen size is decreased. In order to produce responsive text, I set the font size of paragraphs using the vw font size, e.g font-size: 2vw. This ensures that when the webpage is resized, that the text size will re-size in accordance with the display size, rather than overflowing or spreading across the webpage.With the images throughout the website, I set the width to 100% and height to auto, this ensure that the images fill the container in which they are placed regardless of the size of the webpage and across different display sizes. It was through exploration of these responsive properties that I was able to improve my websites quality and overall design.